---
layout: post
title: Understanding Markdown
---

>this is supposed to be a very long text and shall be in a **blockquote**. t is a long established fact that a reader will be distracted by the readable content of a page when looking at its layout. The point of using Lorem Ipsum is that it has a more-or-less normal distribution of letters, as opposed to using 'Content here, content here', making it look like readable English. Many desktop publishing packages and web page editors now use Lorem Ipsum as their default model text, and a search for 'lorem ipsum' will uncover many web sites still in their infancy. Various versions have evolved over the years, sometimes by accident, sometimes on purpose (injected humour and the like).

Let me put some code here

```c
void setup() {
  // initialize digital pin LED_BUILTIN as an output.
  pinMode(LED_BUILTIN, OUTPUT);
}

// the loop function runs over and over again forever
void loop() {
  digitalWrite(LED_BUILTIN, HIGH);   // turn the LED on
  delay(1000);                       // wait for a second
  digitalWrite(LED_BUILTIN, LOW);    // turn the LED off
  delay(1000);                       // wait for a second
}

```

**14/06/2017** 

Took me a while to display the above code in this format. I was working on my blog on [VBA for excel](http://blog.subinabid.xyz/vba/2017/06/12/VBA.html) and i wanted the formatting so badly. So i finally sat down ad started reading documentation. ``` followed by the language is used to mark a code. i was using **arduino** as my language. It was rendered correctly in my github, but not on my blog. I changed **arduino** to **c** and it got fixed by itself. Similarly, on my other blog (*VBA*), when i changed language from **VBA to vb**, it just worked! Apparantly arduino and VBA was [not supported by rouge](https://github.com/jneen/rouge/wiki/List-of-supported-languages-and-lexers)

Now i need to fugure out what github is using a to rendering the code in such a beautiful way.
